# Open Catalyst

In the Open Catalyst project, the goal is to find cost-effective electrocatalysts for producing synthetic fuels like hydrogen with excess renewable energy from intermittent wind and and solar by predicting the relaxed structure and energy of three dimensional catalyst and adsorbate molecules from their initial structure [1, 2, 3]. Current electrocatalysts for producing and burning hydrogen use expensive noble metals such as iridium and platinum. If these can be replaced by new cost-effective catalysts, an earlier adoption of hydrogen energy storage systems may be achieved due to significant cost reductions. Hydrogen is a promising solution for the seasonal storage of large amounts of energy and may therefore be able to fill long lulls of wind and seasonal deviations of solar irradiance in renewable electricity systems. Nevertheless, there exists the risks of delaying the clean energy transition when enhancing solutions to this task and accelerating the adoption of hydrogen as our main energy carrier due to a number of factors. Mainly, the production of grey and blue hydrogen, accounting for nearly all hydrogen used today, can have higher GHG emissions through substantial CO\textsubscript{2} and fugitive methane emissions than the oil and natural gas they might replace. Green hydrogen made from water using renewable electricity for its electrolysis, which is the only climate friendly option, is in most cases less efficient, more expensive, and demands more natural resources and new infrastructure than using renewable electricity directly. For example, hydrogen-ready boilers have about one-sixth of the energy efficiency of heat-pumps for heating and hydrogen fuel-cell electric vehicles about one-third of the energy efficiency when compared with battery electric vehicles.


The authors publish all data on self-hosted repositories under a CC Attribution 4.0 International licence (\url{https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode}) and provide instructions for download on Github under \url{https://github.com/Open-Catalyst-Project/ocp/blob/main/DATASET.md}. Two sets of tasks are published, that is, the Open Catalyst 2020 and the Open Catalyst 2022, which we will refer to with the prefixes \emph{OC20-} and \emph{OC22-} when describing their datasets. In the Open Catalyst 2020 prediction task set, three sub-tasks are presented, namely the structure to energy and forces task \emph{OC20-S2EF}, the initial structure to relaxed structure task \emph{OC20-IS2RS}, and initial structure to relaxed energy task \emph{OC20-IS2RE}. In the Open Catalyst 2022 prediction task set, there further exist the structure to total energy and forces task \emph{OC22-S2EF-Total}, initial structure to relaxed structure task \emph{OC22-IS2RS} and initial structure to relaxed total energy task \emph{OC22-IS2RE-Total}.Data from the periodic table of elements is collected from here: https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/periodic-table/. A critical view on hydrogen is provided in https://blogs.ethz.ch/energy/h2-or-not/


### Citation:
[1] Zitnick, C. L. et al. An Introduction to Electrocatalyst Design using Machine 
Learning for Renewable Energy Storage. Preprint at https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.09435 (2022).
[2] Chanussot, L. et al. Open Catalyst 2020 (OC20) Dataset and Community Challenges. 
American Chemical Society 11 (10), 6059–6072 (2021).
[3] Tran, R. et al. The Open Catalyst 2022 (OC22) Dataset and Challenges for Oxide 
Electrocatalysts. Preprint at https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.08917 (2022).
